README.md, before:

Larashed Go Agent
==============

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/larashed/agent-go.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/larashed/agent-go)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/larashed/agent-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/larashed/agent-go)

Larashed Go agent starts a socket server and collects metrics from your server and Laravel application.
These metrics are then sent to [larashed.com](https://larashed.com/).

## Collected metrics
- Server load 
- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Disk space usage
- Docker container metrics

## IPC Communication

There are 2 supported communication types: TCP and Unix domain socket.

## Platform support

We currently support macOS and major Linux (amd64) distributions. Thanks to the nature of Golang, we should be able
 to add more platforms quite easily per your request. Get in touch!

## How to run

### Install as a systemd service
```
curl -sSL 'https://install.larashed.com/linux' | sudo LARASHED_APP_ID='xxxx' LARASHED_APP_KEY='zzzz' LARASHED_APP_ENV='production' sh
```

The following environment variables will be read if present:
- `LARASHED_APP_ID`
- `LARASHED_APP_KEY`
- `LARASHED_APP_ENV`
- `LARASHED_SOCKET_TYPE`
- `LARASHED_SOCKET_ADDRESS`

Agent configuration will be stored in `/etc/larashed/larashed.conf`.

#### Post installation

Download the script:

```
curl -sSL 'https://install.larashed.com/linux' -o /tmp/larashed-installer.sh && chmod +x /tmp/larashed-installer.sh
```

#### Update agent to the latest version

```
sudo /tmp/larashed-installer.sh --update
```

#### Completely uninstall the agent

```
sudo /tmp/larashed-installer.sh --uninstall
```

### Manual run
Download the latest binary from the [releases](https://github.com/larashed/agent-go/releases/latest) page and run:
```
agent_linux_amd64 run \
    --app-id=xxxxx \
    --app-key=xxxxx \
    --app-env=production \
    --socket-type=tcp \
    --socket-address=0.0.0.0:33101
```
### Docker

You can run our agent as a Docker container.

> We recommend you disable container OS resource monitoring using the `--collect-server-resources=false` flag and use
> the agent container to collect application metrics only. **To monitor your container resource usage, install the
> monitoring agent on the host machine.**

To start the latest tagged image, run:
```
docker run -it \
    larashed/agent:latest \
    --app-id=xxxxx \
    --app-key=xxxxx \
    --app-env=production \
    --socket-type=tcp \
    --collect-server-resources=false \
    --socket-address=0.0.0.0:33101 \
    --hostname=`hostname`
```

### Docker compose

Identical example using `docker-compose`:

```
agent:
  image: "larashed/agent:latest"
  container_name: agent
  command:
    - "--app-id=xxxxx"
    - "--app-key=xxxxx"
    - "--app-env=production"
    - "--socket-type=tcp"
    - "--socket-address=0.0.0.0:33101"
    - "--collect-server-resources=false"
    - "--hostname=your_hostname"
```

---
While not recommended, you can monitor basic host machine metrics by mounting your 
`/proc` and `/sys` directories to `/host` container directory.

Docker run:
```
docker run -it \
    ...
    -v /proc:/host/proc:ro \
    -v /sys:/host/sys:ro
```

Docker compose:
```
  volumes:
    - "/proc:/host/proc:ro"
    - "/sys:/host/sys:ro"
```

Commit message:

Collect OS name and version, PHP version, boot time and if reboot is pending

README.md, after:

Larashed Go Agent
==============

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/larashed/agent-go.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/larashed/agent-go)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/larashed/agent-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/larashed/agent-go)

Larashed Go agent starts a socket server and collects metrics from your server and Laravel application.
These metrics are then sent to [larashed.com](https://larashed.com/).

## Collected metrics
- Server load 
- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Disk space usage
- Operating system name and version
- Boot time
- Whether a reboot is required
- Docker container metrics
- PHP version

## Platform support

We currently support macOS and major Linux (amd64) distributions. Thanks to the nature of Golang, we should be able
 to add more platforms quite easily per your request. Get in touch!

## How to run

### Communication and configuration

Agent collects metrics through TCP or a Unix domain socket. Your application's configuration should match the
 transport method.

### Install as a systemd service (recommended)
```
curl -sSL 'https://install.larashed.com/linux' | sudo LARASHED_APP_ID='xxxx' LARASHED_APP_KEY='zzzz' LARASHED_APP_ENV='production' sh
```

The following environment variables will be read if present:
- `LARASHED_APP_ID`
- `LARASHED_APP_KEY`
- `LARASHED_APP_ENV`
- `LARASHED_SOCKET_TYPE`
- `LARASHED_SOCKET_ADDRESS`

Agent configuration will be stored in `/etc/larashed/larashed.conf`.

#### Post installation

Download the script:

```
curl -sSL 'https://install.larashed.com/linux' -o /tmp/larashed-installer.sh && chmod +x /tmp/larashed-installer.sh
```

#### Update agent to the latest version

```
sudo /tmp/larashed-installer.sh --update
```

#### Completely uninstall the agent

```
sudo /tmp/larashed-installer.sh --uninstall
```

### Manual run
Download the latest binary from the [releases](https://github.com/larashed/agent-go/releases/latest) page and run:
```
agent_linux_amd64 run \
    --app-id=xxxxx \
    --app-key=xxxxx \
    --app-env=production \
    --socket-type=tcp \
    --socket-address=0.0.0.0:33101
```
### Docker

You can run our agent as a Docker container.

> We recommend you disable container OS resource monitoring using the `--collect-server-resources=false` flag and use
> the agent container to collect application metrics only. **To monitor your container resource usage, install the
> monitoring agent on the host machine.**

To start the latest tagged image, run:
```
docker run -it \
    larashed/agent:latest \
    --app-id=xxxxx \
    --app-key=xxxxx \
    --app-env=production \
    --socket-type=tcp \
    --collect-server-resources=false \
    --socket-address=0.0.0.0:33101 \
    --hostname=`hostname`
```

### Docker compose

Identical example using `docker-compose`:

```
agent:
  image: "larashed/agent:latest"
  container_name: agent
  command:
    - "--app-id=xxxxx"
    - "--app-key=xxxxx"
    - "--app-env=production"
    - "--socket-type=tcp"
    - "--socket-address=0.0.0.0:33101"
    - "--collect-server-resources=false"
    - "--hostname=your_hostname"
```

---
While not recommended, you can monitor basic host machine metrics by mounting your 
`/proc` and `/sys` directories to `/host` container directory.

Docker run:
```
docker run -it \
    ...
    -v /proc:/host/proc:ro \
    -v /sys:/host/sys:ro
```

Docker compose:
```
  volumes:
    - "/proc:/host/proc:ro"
    - "/sys:/host/sys:ro"
```
